---
layout: post
title:  Stoyanovich Spoke at the White House AI Impact Forum
date:   2023-11-01 12:00:00
event: true
categories: policy 
preview: 
---

<a href="/people/julia">Julia Stoyanovich</a> spoke at the US Senate
AI Insight Forum on High Impact AI. Her main message was that most AI
systems are high-impact.  AI systems can be great.  But then can also
make mistakes, amplify inequities or make arbitrary predictions. And,
whether AI is beneficial, harmful or inconsequential, its use has
substantial environmental impacts!

She maintains that US Congress can and should play a central role in
ensuring that we realize the benefits of AI while controlling the
risks â€“ to individuals, organizations, society at large, and the
environment.  In her statement, she makes three recommendations
towards this goal.

First, Congress should mandate public disclosure about the use of AI,
starting with its use by the federal government. Second, she
recommends that Congress should substantially increase federal
investment in Responsible AI research, education and training, and
that it should direct that funding to academia through NSF, NIH and
other federal agencies.  Finally, she recommends that Congress should
mandate a comprehensive inquiry into the environmental impact of AI,
and financially disincentivize unnecessary or unproductive use of AI
to limit these impacts.  

For additional information, <a
href="https://r-ai.co/AIImpactForum">read Julia's full statement</a>,
see Senator Schumer's <a href="https://www.schumer.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/statements-from-the-fourth-bipartisan-senate-forum-on-artificial-intelligence">press relase</a>, and take a look at
the <a
href="https://www.techpolicy.press/us-senate-ai-insight-forum-tracker/">US
Sentate AI 'Insight Forum' Tracker</a> by Tech Policy Press.


<div class="container">
  <div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.html path="assets/img/events/forum1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
    {% include figure.html path="assets/img/events/forum2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

